# CS-340

#**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?**
For working on these projects I take the time to ensure all code is built while following industry standards, good commenting, good class structure, and seperating the files to keep them easy to maintain. I have the animalShelter class that handles the database operations and then created the dashboard to focus on the visualization of the information. By creating the CRUD functions (create, read, update, delete) it helped to maintain and work on the AAC database we were working with throughout this project. Also by keeping the database code and dashboard seperate I was able to focus on adding good, clean, functionable widgets to the dashboard while not worrying about effecting the code that ensured the database worked properly. I also feel like the code was designed to easily adapt additional functions such as adding new filters, query methods, or database management.

#**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?**
As I continue to move forward in the Computer Science field I have learned to better manage the information given to me. Taking the time to examine the entire project in its entirety then breaking it down into smaller more managable portions. Focusing on working on steps and ensuring these work before continuing on is very important and key to making sure that the final product will work as expected. Testing these functions that are created each step also keep me on track Using this project as an example, focusing on the CRUD working properly before worrying about a dashboard was the most important part - if you can not access the database and work with it you are already stuck. Building on these smaller tasks will eventually lead to having a full and complete final product. As I continue down this path in computer science I hope to build on this method and continue to improve upon it.

#**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?** 
As the world continues to progress forward into a more technology focused enviroment, computer scientists are the key to solving real world problems and creating these technological leaps. Turning raw data into functioning, real time, adjustable, and obtainable information can help continue to build on whats already been created and continue to push technology into the future. For this project my work created an interactive tool to filter large amounts of data to better suit not only Grazioso Salvare but anyone who may access the site. By creating solutions like this, anyone accessing the dashboard will be able to filter through many diffrent options such as breed, name, age, ect. while Grazioso Salvare has select option to try and sort through perfect candidates for rescue dogs. This overall improves upon efficieny and can save time, money, and resources for the user. Computer Scientist can build programs like this to help continue to lead in innovation and functionality.
